[MUSIC]
Linear regression is used when we
have a continuous response variable,
and several explanatory variables,
or co-variance.
But what if the response
variable is binary, zero or one?
We could still fit
a linear regression model.
That might look something like this.
Here I've written the x axis for
the explanatory variable.
And the response variable is here y,
on the y axis.
It can only take values of 0 and 1.
So if we were to draw a linear
regression through these
points it might look something like that.
As you can see,
only two very specific values of x
will cause a prediction of 0 or 1.
Not to mention, if we were to draw
a residual plot from this regression
right here, it would certainly not
appear to be very normally distributed.
Instead of using a normal likelihood,
it is more appropriate to use
a Bernoulli likelihood here.
That is, the response yi, given phi
i would be independent from
a Bernoulli distribution.
Phi i, where phi i is the probability
of success for observation i.
In this case,
phi i is also the expected value of yi.
But we still need to relate this phi
i to our explanatory variable x.
Remember, in linear regression,
We had the expected value
of yi was equal to,
directly to the linear form in the x's.
Like this.
One option in this model, would be to
model phi directly with this linear form.
But there's one problem,
because phi represents a probability,
it needs to lie between 0 and 1.
To keep this linear form
right here between 0 and 1,
we would need to place some pretty odd
restrictions on the beta coefficients.
Instead, we'll use what
is called a link function
that relates the linear form of
the restricted parameter, in our case phi.
Without any restrictions on the beta's.
To do this, we could use the odds which
is defined as phi over 1 minus phi.
Odds can take on any value greater than 0.
So, we're less restricted but,
not totally unrestricted.
So now let's take the log of the odds.
This quantity is called the logit link,
or logistic link.
It can now take on any real number,
positive or negative, so
it can be related to our linear
form without any restrictions.
That is, the logit of phi i,
which is equal to the log of the odds,
will be equal to this linear form here.
So this is the piece that relates
the x to the success probability.
If we do a little bit of algebra,
we can recover the expression for
the expected value of yi.
That is, from this we can get
the expected value of yi, which is phi.
So we just need to solve
this equation here for phi,
which will be the e to
the beta not plus beta
1 x1i, over 1 plus the same thing.
If we divide the numerator and
the denominator by the numerator,
we get this form.
This form is a little bit more
computationally convenient.
This process right here is called
inverting the link function
to get an expression for
the expected value of y.
Now, if we were to plot expected value
of y as a function of x, over here.
It might look something like this.
Where the expected value
now stays between 0 and 1.
This is logistic regression
using the logistic link.
If the beta coefficient for
x, for the covariant x,
is positive, it means that
an increase in the value of x
corresponds to an increase in
the probability that y is 1.
So the curve would look like this.
If the coefficient is negative, that is,
beta is negative, that means that
an increase in x would correspond to
a decrease in the probability
that y is equal to 1.
So it's just a negative
version of that dotted curve.
There are other possible link functions,
but we're just going to focus on this one.
Of course we can add more x variables
like we did with multiple regression.
And some, or all of those x variables,
could be categorical,
like we had with ANOVA.
[MUSIC]